Remember way back in 1.02 when we generated a whole world full of maps and added the ability to
movebetweenthem? Let’s add that functionality back in. But now, we’ll put it behind our new user interface
that we built using Curses.
The PC can now use the movement keys to move into a gate. Doing this does not leave the PC standing
in the gate; instead, it places the PC in the in the road square directly abeam of the gate in the neighboring
map. For example, if the west gate is at (0,10) in map (0,0), moving west into (0,10) will place the PC at
(78,10) in map (-1,0).
NPCs cannot move into gates.
NPCsandtheir respective turn queues should be maintained across movement through gates. To achieve
this, you’ll probably want a turn queue per map. Time does not (need to1) pass in a map where the PC is not
present.
Additionally, implement fly, as per 1.02, but using the curses interface you built last week. The command
’f’ indicates that the player wants to fly. The interface will then need to read X and Y coordinates. Placement
within the destination map is at your discretion (on the road is probably a good idea). Turn queues and NPC
positions should also be maintained while flying.
We’ll be converting (porting) our entire game into C++ this week, as well. You’ll need to rename all of
your Cfiles with a .cpp extension (if using my makefile, do a make clobberbeforerenaming). You’ll
also need to update your makefile. If you’re using one of my code drops (or if you’ve taken my makefile into
your project), there is already automatic support to compile C++ code; however, you will need to change
the link line to link with the C++ compiler (try to figure this out on your own).
The major structs in your game should be changed to classes; this includes the map and the character
structures. There are no requirements about access to members (public, private, etc.); you decide what you
think is best. You also don’t need to implement methods on these classes if you don’t want to. You may
simply take what was called struct in 1.05, call it instead class, make everything public, and make it
compile.
Mycode uses a pseudo-object-oriented design of the character
t, with sub-types pc
t and npc
t.
If you are using my code, you should change these so that they use C++ class inheritance (pc and npc
should inherit from character2). If you’re not using my code, but you have a similar design, you should
also use inheritance3.
You donot have to do anything with heap.h and heap.c. These already include the necessary syntax
to make them play nice with C++ and may remain as C files.